CoRE                                                      R. Turner, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                                Landis+Gyr
Intended status: Best Current Practice                 February 23, 2016
Expires: August 26, 2016


                         CoOL Problem Statement
                      draft-turner-cool-problem-00

Abstract

   This document describes the particular problem being addressed by the
   introduction of CoOL into the constrained management solution space.
   The description includes the basic constrained management problem, as
   well as properties of the solution.  Details as to the CoOL protocol
   itself can be found in companion documents

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on August 26, 2016.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2016 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Turner                   Expires August 26, 2016                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                CoOL Problem                 February 2016


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   2.  Problem Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   3.  Aspects to be considered for solution . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   Author's Address  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4

1.  Introduction

   The need exists for a unified approach to network management of
   constrained devices as well as constrained networks.  Constrained
   devices imply the solution should require minimal resources (CPU,
   memory) from the device platform; constrained networks imply the
   network management solution should impose minimal traffic on the
   network to accomplish a particular management objective.

2.  Problem Statement

   The problem of network management for constrained networks and
   devices includes a number of requirements not necessarily provided by
   existing solutions.  Any solution must be conservative with "when"
   network traffic is required, as well as "how much" traffic is
   required in order to fulfill network management functions.  In
   addition, a solution should support "traditional" network management
   functions that have been useful in a variety of legacy use-cases, as
   well as new functionality that address the evolving constrained
   device and constrained device scenarios.  In this context, the term
   "constrained" implieslimited resources (RAM, FLASH), as well as
   limited CPU resources.  Therefore, the amount of code necessary to
   achieve network management functionality will need to be as small as
   possible, as well as the amount of RAM necessary to achieve the
   functionality will be limited.  Likewise, minimal network bandwidth
   should be required to support a solution.

   The IETF is coalescing around a set of solutions for transport of
   applications on constrained networks (CoAP).  Since constrained
   devices will likely include support for this constrained "stack", it
   would be advantageous to reuse this constrained device stack for
   network management as well, to address the constrained device
   property of limited resources.

   Additionally, the IETF is moving towards YANG as a data modeling
   language for configuration and state data often attributed to network
   management problems.  Therefore, any constrained device/network
   management solution should attempt to reuse this information when and
   where possible.




Turner                   Expires August 26, 2016                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                CoOL Problem                 February 2016


   YANG is a data modeling language used to model configuration and
   state data manipulated by the NETCONF protocol (RFC 6241), NETCONF
   remote procedure calls, and NETCONF notifications.YANG was originally
   deswork with the NETCONF configuration protocol; however, the idea of
   constrained networks and devices was not a factor in the design of
   NETCONF/YANG.  Any solution that attempts to use YANG in a
   constrained environment should apply constrained principles to the
   application of YANG in these scenarios.

   It would be advantageous to model the particular constrained network
   management functionality on the evolving NETCONF/RESTCONF operations,
   since some level of semantic interoperability might be expected by
   management systems that mix constrained and non-constrained
   management domains.

3.  Aspects to be considered for solution

   The IETF has coalesced around the use of CoAP for application traffic
   on constrained devices and networks, and has published an initial
   solution for management over CoAP (CoMI).  However, there exists a
   potential for failure, or ambiguity, in the reliable addressing of
   management data with CoMI.  The solution introduced by CoOL seeks to
   remedy this potential failure scenario while at the same time utilize
   the IETF application "stack" and management data modeling language
   (YANG).  The evolution of the CoOL solution will recognize the
   proliferation of the "pub/sub" design pattern by relying on
   extensions both at the CoAP, as well as CoOL protocol layers where
   need Point out use cases where these Aspects become very important,
   detail if necessary (extrapolate the problem to expose scaling issues
   if any)

4.  Security Considerations

   The security considerations applicable to network management of
   enterprise networks is similar but different to that of constrained
   networks given the potential risk involved.  The risk involved to
   enterprise networks could be local to an organization (assets,
   reputation).  However, in the case of constrained networks, it is
   reasonable to assume greater risk due to the types of application
   domains constrained devices would be applied (sensors controlling
   everything from home automation to medical devices).  With greater
   risk should come a more strict understanding of the attack vectors
   and vulnerabilities of any and all protocols in use in constrained
   networks, especially those protocols tasked with the management of a
   device.






Turner                   Expires August 26, 2016                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                CoOL Problem                 February 2016


Author's Address

   Randy Turner (editor)
   Landis+Gyr
   30000 Mill Creek Ave
   Alpharetta, Georgia  30022
   USA

   Phone: 678-258-1292
   Email: randy.turner@landisgyr.com









































Turner                   Expires August 26, 2016                [Page 4]
